# FaceIdentificationSystem

Video Link: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV13K411p7Y8?from=search&seid=12996258533550506671&spm_id_from=333.337.0.0

This identification system realizes the identity verification function by comparing the photo taken by the live camera with the photo uploaded by the students in advance. 
Through the training photos, a face recognition model is obtained, which can predict the name of incoming photo. The training module is got by two ways: LBP+PCA+SVM or Convolutional Neural Network.  
The model used 107 students’ photos (40 from ORL and other are provided by Chinese university and Korean university classmates) for training and ten original photos of each person at least. The prediction model predicts and returns the student ID. The predicted ID is compared with student ID which is searched in database by the input. If they are the same, the verification is passed. The “daka” column in database records as 1, otherwise it is recorded as 0.

The platform uses flask framework, MySQL as database and adopt MVC design pattern. 
It realizes to open the camera from the browser and display the screen in real time and capture the photo by canvas. The photo can be transferred to backend and stored in the database.
This platform realizes functions as follows: register, log in, change password, upload multiple photos at once, and show the accuracy of trainning models.
database includes id, name, pwd, email, studentID, school, face, index daka, and uuid.

fast training:
  Detect the number of photos in each folder, if there are less than ten photos, use data augmentation to generate photos
  By using hog to realize detect face and reduce the size, and we can get 64 key points
  Use Procrustes Analysis to find transformation method from sample to template to realize face alignment
  After preprocessing the image, using LBP to extract texture features, using PCA to reduce dimentionality, using SVM to construct     classification model

Precise training:
  Ten photos are generated by each photo. 
  After image preprocessing, face ditection, face alignment, they are sent to the improved VGG training model constructed by Keras.
  36 samples are fed in each time and 120times in total. 
  The model with the highest accuracy is stored
  
 In order to save operation time and prevent overfitting of small sample training, this system fine-tunes some VGG layers. This neural network uses 3x3 convolution kernal and 3 sets of conventional layers, 3 pooling layers, 2 fully connected layers and a classification layer.
 
 Version: python-3.6.8, tensorflow-gpu-1.8.0, numpy-1.16.6, scikit-learn-0.22.1, opencv-4.0.1
 
 Some files are too big to upload, such as shape_predictor_68_face_landmarks.dat and some static file. 
